---
layout: default
title: 1-1
permalink: /Categories/Any%/World1/1-1
parent: World 1
haschild: false
nav_order: 1
---
# 1-1 
While on the surface 1-1 is a pretty simple level it is a great level to start learning the intricacies of NSMBW movement. Sliding down slopes and running/jumping off rolling hills is used throughout this level to move faster than Mario's normal full running speed of 3 units/frame (referred to as "3 speed").

### Every level tutorial will include the following section for movement tips specific for that level. See [Movement]() for more detailed descriptions and tutorials for movement.

## Movement reminders & tips:


## Slopes 

It is only faster to slide down slopes that are less steep than 45 degrees (1x2 in terms of blocks).
When sliding down slopes it's usually important to slide on the ground after the slope for a bit to get full advantage of the slope speed. Looking at the speed display in the example videos and in your own practice can be a great way to get used to how far on the flat ground you should continue sliding.

Running up upwards slopes is slow. If it's possible to jump over an upwards slope it's almost always faster to jump over it. If you are forced to land on an upwards slope it's important to jump off it as fast as possible.

## Rolling Hills

When running on rolling hills, your speed changes based on the speed/direction of the rolling hill.

To maximize the speed from forward rolling hills, run onto it as early as possible then jump off of it as late as possible and stay in the air as long as possible to maintain its speed. Twirling in midair (if you aren't propellor Mario) will help you stay in the air for longer.

Similarly, backwards rolling hills will decrease your speed while running/jumping off of them. There are two ways to deal with these slopes by "cancelling" the speed of the hill you're on and returning to 3 speed.
1) Crouch jumping off of a slope and uncrouching mid-air will neutralize your speed.
2) Shooting a projectile (fire or ice, ideally immediately before jumping) will neutralize your speed.

Of course, your speed will revert to the speed of the rolling hill (or 3 speed if on normal ground) as soon as you land.

## 1-1 Beginner
{% include yt.html id="MbP5ucrJADI" %}

## 1-1 Intermediate
{% include yt.html id="yD23Mjs6se0" %}

## 1-1 Expert
### With Goomba Boost
{% include yt.html id="5mvzJXkVSKk" %}

### No Goomba Boost
{% include yt.html id="X12n3CyICt4" %}





